---
layout: "../layouts/base-layout.astro"
title: "Projects"
description: "This is a list of a few open source programs I've worked on. Most of them are one-offs and aren't actively maintained."
---

import Image from "astro/components/Image.astro";

# Projects

This is a list of a few open source side projects I've worked on over the years. Most of them are
one-offs and aren't actively maintained. This list is non-comprehensive and is a showcase of the
projects I consider the most interesting and relevant.

## Lorewalker Cho

<Image
  class="w-full max-w-md mx-auto xl:inline-block xl:float-right xl:max-w-xs xl:mb-8 xl:ml-8"
  src="/images/thumbnails/lorewalker-cho-conversation.webp"
  alt="A short Discord conversation between a user and a bot."
  width="320"
  height="188"
/>

[Lorewalker Cho](https://github.com/amdrel/lorewalker-cho) is a fully functional Discord bot that
plays games where it asks trivia questions related to the game World of Warcraft. The bot is written
in Python 3 and uses the wonderful [discord.py](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) library
and uses PostgreSQL as a backend for storing Discord server configurations and scoreboards.

Features:

- Allows setting custom trivia channels and prefixes (admin only).
- Is able to error correct misspelled words in answers.
- Keeps track of player scores in the Discord server.

I don't currently have this bot hosted anywhere since I'm not actively using it on any of my servers
at the moment. You will probably have to update `discord.py` to be able to use it since I'm sure
Discord has made some breaking changes since I've last used this.

Want to add questions to Lorewalker Cho? [Create an issue on
GitHub](https://github.com/amdrel/lorewalker-cho/issues/new) and use the `question-request` label.
Include your question text, answer and topic of the question being submitted.

## jamiekuppens.com

<Image
  class="w-full max-w-md mx-auto xl:inline-block xl:float-right xl:max-w-xs xl:mb-8 xl:ml-8"
  src="/images/thumbnails/jamiekuppens-com.webp"
  alt="A short Discord conversation between a user and a bot."
  width="320"
  height="188"
/>

[jamiekuppens.com](https://github.com/Amdrel/jamiekuppens.com) is the website that you're on right
now! It was created with Astro and it uses a custom theme designed by myself. This website was
designed to be as small and fast as possible.

Previously this website was written in [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), which I still adore, but I much
prefer using JSX for customizing my site instead of templates.

## Google Calendar Discord Syncer

[Google Calendar Discord Syncer](https://github.com/Amdrel/gcal-discord-poster) is an interactive
CLI application written in Python that syncs Google calendar events to a Discord server channel
using embeds. I wrote this a long time ago when Discord didn't support events yet so that I could
have nice looking signup posts for World of Warcraft raids events in my guild.

The other reason why I wrote this tool was because I got tired of copy-pasting event posts and
adjusting the times in them two times a week. However, I've since replaced it with [Raid
Helper](https://raid-helper.dev/) since it supports scheduling event posts while also automatically
changing the date.

## 5e Item Generator

[5e Item Generator](https://github.com/Amdrel/5e-item-generator) is a React website that generates
homebrew items for D&D 5e with random attributes. Right now it only generates basic items, but I
plan on expanding on this in the future.

## Coffee Boy

[Coffee Boy](https://github.com/Amdrel/coffee-boy) is a work-in-progress GameBoy and GameBoy Color
emulator I'm writing in TypeScript. I plan on returning to this and finishing it up eventually. When
it's done I'm thinking of including a demo of it in this website with an open source test ROM, and
also including a feature to let you use your own.

## Notch

[Notch](https://github.com/amdrel/notch) is a CHIP-8 virtual machine written in Rust. I wrote it
after getting interested in emulation from the [Ferris Makes Emulators
stream](https://www.twitch.tv/ferrisstreamsstuff). It has worked with all games I threw at it so
far, but can use a little polishing and refactoring.
